# Uphold a Positive Learning Environment

Students will uphold a positive learning environment as defined by the following five skills and how those skills are evaluated.

Skill | Negatively affecting | Non-adherent | Beginning | Developing | Proficient | Beyond Proficient (Exemplary)
----- | -------------------: | -----------: | --------: | ---------: | ---------: | ----------------------------:
The student: | -1 | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4
respects personal space | Makes degrading and/or offensive sounds, gestures, comments.  Touches other students.  Throws materials at others. | Touches other students.  Throws materials at others.  Laughs at other students. | Keeps to self, and does not make comments to or about others. |	Keeps to self, and does not make comments to or about others. | Stays in own personal space and keeps all own materials in personal space.  Only makes positive comments to others. | Sticks up for others when somebody's personal space is being violated.  Gives encouraging words to all.
keeps workspace clean	| Workspaces are written on or have been otherwise vandalized. | Garbage is left at or near workstation. | Chair is not pushed in.  Computer keyboard and mouse are disconnected or missing. | Chairs is pushed in.  Computer and keyboard are ready for students coming in next. | Own workspace (including the floor) and workspaces around the student are free from debris when the student leaves.  Chairs are pushed in.  Computers are neat. | Keeps own workspace clean and free from graffiti and garbage.  Helps others to do the same, including pushing in chairs and neatening computers.
only uses cell phones with permission | Uses cell phone withou first asking for permission. | Uses cell phone for purposes not related to class or school. | Puts cell phone in proper place when asked one time, but must be asked more than one time to put it away. | Puts cell phone in proper place when asked one time, and keeps it away until given permission or until class ends. | Only uses cell phone when given prior permission.  Keeps it in its proper place at all other times. | Only uses cell phone when given prior permission and when it has to do with school work.
advocates for self | |  Puts self down or often says, "I can't," when talking about making progress. | Has another student ask questions about content or other material.  Asks the teacher and/or other students to stand up for student. | Sometimes asks questions or comments about material.  Sometimes stands up for self by telling others to stop behavior that is negatively affecting the student and/or the environment. | Asks questions about content or other material.  Stands up for self by telling others to stop behavior that is negatively affecting the student and/or the learning environment. | Asks questions about content or other material.  Seeks additional help when needed.  Schedules time for extra help rather than having extra time assigned.
advocates for others | Makes degrading and/or offensive sounds, gestures, comments toward others.  Or laughs at / cheers with / encourages others when they do so. | Does nothing when others make degrading and/or offensive gestures, comments toward others.  Lets negative things happen. | Watches and/or listens when others make degrading and/or offensive gestures, comments toward others.  Lets negative things happen. | Says something after the fact when self or others need help with content or when others make degrading and/or offensive gestures, comments toward others. | Helps others understand the course content.  Asks questions about content.  Directs others to change their behavior that is negatively affecting the learning environment. | Sticks up for others when negative words or actions are directed toward others, regardless of the source.  Helps explain content to peers.

In classes where this competency is formally evaluated, students will receive a weekly grade based on the lowest day of the week.  This will be monitored in the assignment portion of the grade (which has no effect on the grade).  This weekly grade will be translated to a competency score (which does count toward a student's grade).  These final grades will depend on how well the students increase, maintain, or decrease their weekly scores.
